---
layout: post
title: "AmitU's Brush"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

AmitU's Brush states:

    If for a movie, if we can find an alternate interpretation of what happened
    in it, that may even contradict with writer and director, but 1. does not
    contradict what happened in movie, 2. gives a meaning to the movie far
    beyond what movie initially had, then that interpretation should be
    considered valid interpretation of the movie.

Applies to books, or even people too. Here is one example for people.

Here is [one
example](http://www.quora.com/Are-there-any-major-flaws-with-the-sci-fi-movie-Looper/answer/Amit-Upadhyay),
in the movie Looper, the end of the movie leaves open the interpretation that
many parallel reality exists and the climax is that of only one of them. Would
it be satisfying to know that bad things happen to all characters in most of
those parallel realities but the one shown? Of course not.

But a strong case can be made that movie allowed for only one timeline.
Alternate realities are possible in future, but only one timeline exists, even
tho it may loop back in time. The movie showed things disappearing and
appearing, memories getting lost or formed based on what is the current
timeline. And when old bruce was killed, when young bruce took the kid, not
only old bruce's body disappered, but all memory of him being there, all
physical evidence, everything about existance of looper organization,
everything disappeared and the only remaining timeline is the one in which
everyone lives happily lives everafter.

There is nothing in the movie that contradicts with this. \[Other then one plot
hole, but arguably not introduced by this interpretation\]. This interpretation
adds to the movie without taking anything away. And therefore should be
considered a valid interpretation, even if writers/director did aim for this.

Here is another example, applied on a person:

Hitler is universal bad guy. But lets apply amitu's brush on him, lets look at
the world with and without him. He created a world in which there was no more
wars. He may not have wanted to create that world, but he was instrumental to
it. Today the peace we enjoy is direct consequence of his actions. Wars were
common occurances, countries used to keep fighting with each other, he ended
that era of our history. He killed a lot of innocent people, but all wars do.

I am not saying he was not a monster, but so were everyone who were involved
with wars, and by showing the real ugly face of wars and power, Hitler did a
favor too. It is easy to create alternate reality stories in which Hitler cried
when he killed those he did (who is there to say he did not when no one was
looking, who is there to say he did not put a mask of monster), so he can save
those who were saved when era of war ended. The only worthy question to ask is
if the world is a better place with him or without him, would wars have stopped
on their own without the ugly worldwars that crippeled every war lusting
countries ability to wage wars?

Point is there is no point in spending all time in reality, certain kind of
picture can be painted by taking amitu's brush in hand, that diverges from
reality, without taking too much away, but by giving a more awesome story.

At the end of the day only stories matter. The awesomer they are the better.

