---
layout: post
title: "The Unintended SPAM"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

It so happens I spam, without realizing it. No I do not send messages to
unknown people, I spam my followers and friends. A lot of my friends/twitter
followers are following me to read my technical posts, with no interest to my
views on politics or pictures of my latest trip. Some on the other hand liked
my views on anan hazare or rame sena, and have no interest in how great django
or python is. And my family, well they just want to know when will I get
married.

I am not the only one, almost everybody with twitter/facebook/blogs has this
problem, people have more than one interests they want to write about. But
people who read them are not interested in all their interests, just a few.

And no matter how informative, well written a post is, if it is not of my
interest, it is SPAM(1).

This is one of the reasons I stopped using Google Reader and twitter. I
followed people and blogs because I loved some of their posts, but the
percentage of posts by them that appeals me is typically low, and this means
majority of articles/posts are SPAM for me.

One solution for this is we have topic specific blog and twitter accounts, but
that has very bad usability, now I have to maintain three login passwords on
twitter, go to three different blog pages to review comments/spams etc etc.

Blogs do have topic specific RSS feed that I could subscribe, but there too the
usability is a big problem. Lets say I liked your post and I subscribed to you
on Google Reader, and in a week or so realize that 80% of your posts are not of
my interest, there is nothing in Google Reader that lets me select only the
topic I am interested in, I have to unsubscribe your main RSS feed, find RSS of
the tag/category on your blog I like and subscribe it again.

In my opinion, these usability issues are the key reason I moved away from
these services.

I am playing with an
[experiment](/2012/09/i-am-leaving-facebook-why-and-how-you-should-too/) of
managing my followers though [email list](bit.ly/QfLC35), where I have created
groups each subscriber can add themselves to. In my case the
[groups](bit.ly/QfLC35) are "Programming & Geeky Stuff", "Politics & India &
Philosophy", and "Personal Stuff & Random Thoughts"(2).

I think this is a superior approach than the facebook/twitter/blog rss because
when my readers will receive an email they do not like, they will see a link at
the bottom of the mail which lets them remove themseves from the group that
mail belonged to.

My friends who have added have added themselves in distinct sets of groups.
Which probably already indicates that for the groups they did not add
themselves to, my posts related to that topic was SPAM for them. Apologies and
welcome to my mailing list :-)

Notes:

1. There is a use case of discovery, if I follow you because you wrote
something on topic A, and your next post is on topic B that is new to me, it
may not be spam and I might get interested in it. But once you give topic B a
shot, you realize it is not for you, if you continue to receive posts about it
from a person, it is spam.

2. I thought of being more fine grained, but this is a tradeoff, and further
I feel within the group, there is a good amount of discovery potential, I do
want my java readers to see my django is awesome posts so that they may switch.
