---
layout: post
title: "Guns Vs Mobs"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

A tragedy happened today in America, [a gunman killed a lot of kindergarten
kids including
others](http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/15/nyregion/shooting-reported-at-connecticut-elementary-school.html?hp&_r=0).

This is sad indeed. A lot of blame is going on gun ownership allowing such
tragedies and how US should have stronger gun control laws.

I find myself quite torn at this topic.

First let me clarify that *guns indeed kill people*. A similar incident
happened in China today, [Knife attack at Chinese school wounds 22
children](http://edition.cnn.com/2012/12/14/world/asia/china-knife-attack/index.html).
Some day. Fortunately in this case the assailent had knife and not gun, so 22
were wounded and not killed.

What exactly is a gun? *Gun is an assurance against mob*. A mob of 4 people can
get me killed with impunity, even if they have nothing. They can kill me for 10
bucks if they decide to.

Giving a gun to all 4 of them and me changes everything. It does nothing to to
mobs ability to kill me, but it empowers me to kill the mob too. It lets me
stand up. It makes mob fear me even if I am one.

Very recently a mob decided to take [bombay
hostage](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bal_Thackeray#Death). For three days
handful of bikers with flags went around the city of 20 million people, closing
all the shops down. No citizen dared to step out, because 4 guys will come and
beat him up. The citizens of this city stayed home. They surrendered to the
mob. Mob knew they had no guns, they are helpless.

If even few had guns, the bikers would have required to travel with guns. And
if bikers travelled with guns, police would not have allowed them to roam
freely.  Police allowed bikers to roam freely because they were unarmed,
"peaceful", "harmless".

If we had guns, police would be dealing with lot more brutal crime.

Mumbai police took 45 minutes to come out of the police station at Regal
theatre when those gunmen were roaming on our streets.

Mumbai police has not faced armed gunmen since D company left town. Mumbai
police was "defeated by its own success" as Bane would say. Mumbai police is
impotent. [164](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2008_Mumbai_attacks) people died
dues to mumbai police impotency, because our police does not know how to handle
gunmen. 164 people died because citizens had no guns to do anything against the
terrorists.

27 died in Connecticut today.

40 died today in Mumbai routine road accidents. I am glad about my car.

A friend of mine had a gunda running his building internet connection. When he
tried to switch ISP, the gunda came with a few men, unarmed men, and forcefully
removed his network cables. Would the gunda risk his life for the meagre Rs 500
per month had we been living in a country without gun control, had he had a
risk that my friend could have owned a gun?

Gun control only prevents law abiding citizens from owning guns to defend
themselves. Criminals are fine with knives, with their numbers, and they are
called criminals because they defy laws, like gun control law.

Sure we do not get such sensationalistic news like 27 killed by a gunman in
India, but we never do calculation about the number of death due to inadequate
medical attention, due to lack of income for daily wage workers and so forth in
those 3 days.

I guess if we do not see numbers in headline we assume the number is zero.

