---
layout: post
title: "Am I A Writer?"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

What is the right definition of writer that I can use to answer this question
for myself, "am I a writer?"?

It can not be "those who write", as well there a lot of people who write. I
wrote a lot during my studies, that doesnt make me writer. If it did then every
student is a writer. And I am not looking for a definition that basically says
everyone is writer, like those gay everyone is beutiful lines. I need a more
concrete definition that clearly separates out writers from the rest.

How about "those who are paid for writing", this is also meaningless, as there
are a lot of writers who never got paid. "those who write to be paid", its
wrong too.

Or how about "people who have something to say", well unless they then go an
and write, there is no chance they can be writers, or how about "people who
write because they have something to say", but this too is in wrong. Here is
why: a lot of times people just write without even knowing what they are going
to be writing about, and they still do write very readable stuff, and should be
called writer.

Then how about "people who somehow manage to produce writings that happen to be
readable", but this will explude a lot of writers whose writing is not good. Is
being a writer require you to be a good writer? Writer and good writer should
be two different sets, one subset of another.

I think the definition should clearly be such that it qualifies me as a writer,
and my writings are not good, nor they make me any money, nor fame. So I guess
writer is "one who loves to write (and writes)".

And so who is a good writer? "One who benefits even one by their writing". This
leaves us two kinds of good writers, one is "those who benefit a few
enormously", and other "those who benefit even a little bit to a lot".

Damn! If only I could come up with a definition of a good writer that qualifies
me.
