---
layout: post
title: "CryptoBlog"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Ladies and Gentlemen, in your life time you must have seen a lot of blogs,
social blog, microblog, this blog and that blog. Tonite, for the very first
time in the history of blogs you are going to see something totally new, a blog
that has never been seen before. Ladies and Gentlemen, brace your heart for the
CRYPTOBLOG!

You see this fine specimen of a blog, and you wonder to yourself, my god this
is excellent, but what exactly is it! And I tell you my dear audiance, that
this blog has properties never seen before, properties that have to do with
Math! Math and cryptography!

Anybody can write a blog. Blog with posts stored in mysql tables, or the new
age blogs with posts stored in nosql. Then there are blogs with posts stored in
plain old retro text files! Cryptoblog my friends, stores the posts in test
files which themselves are stored in git!

And what does that give you you might ask? For the very first time, the entire
revision history of the blog is available for anyone to see! And with the power
of Maths and Cryptography, the author of a cryptoblog can not change the
content of the blog without you seeing all edits.

Look here, the entire history of this blog is available here on this fine
[github hosted page](https://github.com/amitu/amitu.github.com/commits/master).

<a href="https://github.com/amitu/amitu.github.com/commits/master"><img
src="/images/cryptoblog1.png" class="hcenter"></a>

Look! The authors of the blog can no longer modify the blogs post after
publishing them once. And if you are wondering what do these strange things
mean:

<a href="https://github.com/amitu/amitu.github.com/commits/master"><img
src="/images/cryptoblog2.png" class="hcenter"></a>

Those numbers and characters have special power of Maths. The Maths gaurantee
that the author can never change any of his previous blog posts without also
changing those numbers. The entire history, in this case all 200 or so changes,
and the content of all the posts and files all have been mixed together with
the magical power of maths, and out came that special id 9ac95dd5f7, and the
author of the blog would have easier time draining the entire bank balance of
Bill Gates and pocketing it than changing anything in the blog post and still
getting these magical numbers.

This all has been possible due to the power of git, and [github
pages](https://help.github.com/articles/what-are-github-pages). And not only
can cryptoblogs are impossible to modify after published without the history
being visible to everyone forever and ever, it is also extremely easy to
download the entire content of the cryptoblog, all the posts, and all the
revisions done in the past.

With cryptoblog no politician can say something and change his words later.
Imagine the era of utopia cryptoblogs herald! The perfect accountability of
ones public actions and speech. No saying one thing to one audiance and another
to another. No taking money and favors and changing views without public
scritiny. No one can cover their tracks.

For this reason only the daring few will use cryptoblog, but then my dear
ladies and gentlmen, when you see one of them, you know that you are dealing
with one fine fellow, who is willing to live with all his mistakes made public
forever. One who you know will never lie to you. Not on his blog. His
cryptoblog.


