---
layout: post
title: "No Blackholes"
url: /blackholes/
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Blackholes are the most fascinating objects in the Universe. Or may be the
rotating ones. Or may be a super massive rotating blackhole which itself is
orbiting around even bigger blackholes. But blackholes are somehow there in
whatever is the most awesome phenomena is there.

Lets start with how we think they are formed. Atoms repel each other, and when
gravity becomes strong enough to overcomes this repulsive force, stars start
forming. The atoms lose their “atomicity”, get crushed together, and the nuclear
starts fusing. Sort of. Which releases a lot of energy, and we have Sun. But
then comes a time when all atoms are fused and not much energy is left to be
made out of fusing hydrogen atoms, electrons can’t be squeezed further, thanks
to Pauli’s exclusion principle, and white dwarf is formed. If the mass was
higher, the gravity will overcome this electron pressure, and basically electron
will fused with proton, and neutrons would be produced, releasing a burst of
energy, and we have a neutron star. Now we know that neutrons repel each other
when they are sufficiently close, and that holds the gravity back. Now if the
star was heavy enough that this repulsion also can not hold it back, then well
we have blackhole.

The star keeps shrinking and there is no more physical law to stand against
gravities crushing force. Blackhole.

This is all fine, nothing wrong with this view. This will happen. Or this will
happen “eventually”.

Lets look at Interstellar for a time being. When you are close enough to a black
hole, the time slows down. In fact time slows down when gravity is there, and
stronger the gravity, the slower is the time. Now imagine a person who was stuck
on that planet, not for an hr, but for a year, what do you think that person
will see when they look outside? One hr was like a decade for them. 4 days would
be century. A year would be about 10 thousand years outside.

What if the planet was further closer to blackhole? That one year could be a
million year, or a billion year. Close enough and an hour would be a trillion
year. All of this is normal, just put any time dilation number, and Eisntiens
equation tells you how close to blackhole you have to be. This is still out of
blackhole. When you touch the event horizon, one second will be more than the
time the rest of the Universe has.

Are you getting my drift now? Yes there is nothing stopping a neutron star to
collapse such that its boundary is within event horizon. But how long would it
take from an outsiders perspective is the question. It will take infinite time,
from outsiders perspective for any blackhole to be formed. So even if black
hole can be formed, given that there hasn’t been infinite time since the
formation of universe itself, no neutron star would have crossed the event
horizon boundary so far. You can not see a blackhole. Universe will end before
one is formed. There is no blackhole is a safe statement to make.

And you know what happens before any neutron star collapses in a blackhole? It
will evaporate. The Hawking radiation does not happen only in blackholes. Even
near Sun pairs of particle-anti particles are getting formed, even Sun is
sucking one of them due to gravity, and other is escaping with positive energy.
Even Sun is radiating with Hawking radiation. We just don’t think about it
because that radiation is small compared to every other radiation coming out of
Sun. Neutron stars, Sun, you and me, are all losing energy due to Hawking
Radiation.

You are falling in blackhole. You look outside and you see stars one by one
supernova. You see the Universe to grow old and age. You also see the blackhole
itself lose mass via hawking radiation. And sometime before you cross the event
horizon, zoop, the blackhole is gone. Sorry. Universe is also over by now. If
tidal forces hasn’t crushed you, the emptiness of where you find yourself would
definitely crush your hopes and feelings :-)

What about the stuff which was already inside the event horizon? Well, its not
really event horizon unless there is enough material inside a given radius. And
the closer to this limit we reach, the longer it takes for any more material to
cross that radius. So event horizon too forms after infinite amount of time, and
which is same as saying it never is formed.

What is the number of blackholes today in the entire universe even if universe
is almost infinitely old? Zero.

## What About The Accretion Disks That We Observe?

We have already "seen" many blackholes. But lets look at that statement more
carefully. We can't really see a blackhole, or even a neutron star for that
matter. What we see is either: 1. an evidence of a mass. Say we see a star
revolving around a point, we can calculate that stars mass and trajectory, so we
know the mass of invisible stuff which star is revolving around. And since we
have our models, Chandrashekhar limit etc, we know if that invisible stuff is
1.x times as heavy as our Sun, it must be Neutron star, or if its 4.x then its
blackhole and so on.

This is fine, as I am not saying that mass does not exist. The mass that people
say is singularity already, exists, just the assumption that it is singularity
already is wrong. So there is some mass, which is shrinking under gravity, and
if there was infinite time, it would become blackhole. Its not there yet (or
ever will be, universe will end way before that ever happens).

Second way to see a blackhole is the accretion disk, basically blackhole sucking
up gas. Now, the equations we have of predicting how much xray should be emitted
by a gas falling in blackhole, does not tell things about gas that has gone
beyond event horizon, see we have no equation to tell us what is in that
neverland. The equation tells us what happens when gas atoms come arbitrary
close to event horizon, even away from eventhorizon there is enough gravity to
cause the gas to burn up in the spectacular fashion it does, and it does. None
of the light we see in such fashion is for gas below eventhorizon. That gas,
from our point of view, will never cross the event horizon anyways, we dont need
any such equations.
