---
layout: post
title: "Am I An Alien?"
url: /alien/
section: hinduism
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Some 20 years ago, unknowingly, I started this thought experiment, possibly
after watching some Hollywood movie about aliens: what if I am an alien?

You can say, “what kind of question is that? you look human”. But we have seen
in many movies, star trek episodes, it is quite possible that if there exists a
civilisation that can travel across the stars, they can also create beings that
resemble human beings. This appearance of normal human (tho sometimes I doubt
that when I look at myself in pictures) is not a conclusive scientific proof
that I am not an alien.

The next line of questions is, if I am indeed an alien, what are my “super
powers”?, can my face split open and there is a tiny being sitting their
controlling the whole of me? Or can my tongue grow really long, and capture the
cat when you are not looking? Are my ears real, or they just cut off in to
become more human like?

I would argue, If we are assuming alien beings have made me resemble a normal
human, they would not have done a crappy job at it. It is not logical to assume
that they can make me look 90% or 99% human like, but there is 10% or 1% error.
May be there is 0.1% error. May be there is 0.001% error. The fact is, if they
are sufficiently advanced, they can make me sufficiently indistinguishable from
a human being.

Then comes the real question, if I am an alien, how come I am asking this
question, how come I do not know that I am alien? I would have known if I had
some “flaws”. Or some super powers. But it appears I have neither, but does that
mean it is a proof beyond doubt that I am not an alien? Does that fact that I do
not know I am an alien a proof that I am not one?

To answer that question we will have to speculate into the motives of the
aliens. We have no information about them, but lets say they did create a human
being indistinguishable from human beings, then it is obvious that their motive
was concealment. And if you want your “spy” to never reveal to someone that they
are a spy, the easiest way would be to not let them know they are a spy in the
first place.

There is nothing to say that I can not be “activated” at some later date, in
which my powers would come into being, and I would do what they sent me here
for.

So I think it is conceivable that even if I look exactly human, even if I do not
have any idea about it, I could still be an alien.

The next question is that of motive. What do they want me to do? One possibility
is that they sent me here, to stay dormant for all this years, and in future
they would activate me to do some crucial thing. May be I will develop some
super power, and when their fleet arrives I would fight from Earth and give them
victory. But that is kind of nonsensical (this entire thing is nonsensical, but
bear with me please). That does not require me to have the human form and live
like human for all this year. If they wanted to deploy a missile they can launch
against Earth at opportune time, they need not make that missile look like a
human being. That would be an incredibly wastage of engineering. Another thing
is I do not think we are even remotely prepared to have a space battle, leave
alone having prospects of winning them. If someone can come from across gulf of
stars, I am pretty sure they can win against Earth even without me. I am not a
military weapon. That theory does not make much sense.

So this opens another question, what if I am already activated and I am already
doing what I am supposed to be doing? I obviously do not seem to have any super
power, so I can not be used for fighting, they do not need that anyways.

If someone sends a spy to foreign territory, they often do not do it for
sabotage, but for information gathering. And this makes sense. If I was
engineered to be a spy, assuming they are sufficiently advanced to have modified
me to either be broadcasting the information I am collecting in real time, or if
they can "collect me” and get the information post-martem.

This makes sense, as the most important need you have when you encounter an
alien civilisation is information. They would want to understand who we are,
what matters to us, how we react, etc etc. If you want to invade a country, or
may be even do trade with them, its conceivable you want to get as much
information about that country as possible.

And this is something I consider myself good at. I am curious. I aspire to be as
learned as possible. I have been observing the world, trying to understand it.
May be I am an spy already active on a mission against Earth.

Now this poses a question for me. An existential one. If I have no way to prove
that I am not indeed an alien spy, I have to consider it as a possibility. Now
there are two possibilities. One is that I do not matter. In which case all is
well and I can go on with my life, as it basically doesn’t matter, may be there
are hundreds of spies, may be they already have the information they needed, may
be that civilisation is long dead and I am just the random probe which activated
as per the programming, and nobody is listening. If I did not matter, all is
well. But I have no way to prove that. So I have to consider the other
possibility that I do matter.

Lets first consider what can information do? How powerful is understanding the
enemy. This particular thought came to me when I was reading Ender’s Game. In
that book Ender is the best Commander Earth can hope for, in a war against
aliens. And while the book said this is because children who are accustomed to
space battles from very childhood are going to be better in space battles, where
there is no up and down, if we read the book the advantage of Ender is not about
knowing up from down. One of the theories Ender develops during his training was
that in order to win against an enemy, you need to understand the enemy, and
this bit is obvious, you need to know strength and weaknesses of your enemy
before you can formulate a battle plan, but he goes one step further, he says
you have to understand the enemy so well that you know how they think about
everything. Now if you understand how your enemy thinks about everything, you
will also understand how the enemy thinks about themselves, and since everyone
loves themselves (even when they hate themselves), you have to understand why
the enemy loves themselves, and if you truly do understand that, you will not be
able to help but love them. And this is when you are most prepared to defeat
them. In later books he realized he does not have to defeat them, and if you
really understand people you would know they are not really your enemy.

So lets assume understanding == dangerous weapon.

May be there would come a day when it would be between Earth and some aliens,
and I would matter. Without my knowledge I am being tool on the wrong side. All
my friends are from Earth, my family, my everything is here. How would I feel if
I am to be the tool for destruction of all this? Now granted this is a very
small possibility, and if we as a thought experiment assume, that this is
possible, then I am the bad guy.

What are my options? One simple option is I kill myself. Don’t get me wrong, I
have no such notions, I value my life far too much, and to be very frank if I
did find out I am going to be the cause of destruction of Earth, knowing myself
I do not think I would be that willing to kill myself to save the Earth. I am
quite a regular, small, selfish kind of person. I am talking about a thought
experiment.

So is this a logical choice? Would it necessarily, without any doubts, help
Earth?

To answer this, lets look at the other possibility. If I am indeed a sort of
“weapon” that could possibly destroy Earth, then it is reasonable to assume that
I could also be the “weapon” that could save the Earth.

Consider that I am not a alien spy, but instead NASA stumbled upon such spy, and
found the technology, and NASA knows there could be more such spies as
redundancy ("aliens are fools" is wrong assumption), and since NASA can not yet
stop the other spies, they can may be plant their own spies, to find out the
information that aliens are getting, so they can get that same/similar
information themselves, try to extrapolate what strengths and weaknesses aliens
may be seeing from that information, and may be I am the spy of the Earth.
Imagine they do not have technology, but a controlling probe crash landed, and
they just rigged it to send the information to NASA data banks.

Now since this possibility exists, may be I am the only probe of that form, the
only hope of Earth. In that scenario, killing myself would be a huge disservice
to Earth.

So that is not a logical choice.

But I still have to decide. Am I the weapon of aliens against Earth or the
counter weapon of Earth against the alien? What action can I take that I can go
to sleep with peace? Assuming understanding == dangerous weapon. And since I do
have love for Earth. How do I act?

I did manage to solve this dilemma some 6-7 years back, and the solution is: if
understanding is indeed a powerful weapon, and since I can not eliminate myself
as I do not know for sure I am not an Earth agent, I have only one logical
choice: write a book.

I do not know if NASA/whatever has cracked the alien plan. I do not know if I am
their agent. So I can not assume the information/understanding I am collecting
is reaching Earth. How else to communicate the accumulated understanding than by
publishing a book?

Lets analyse this choice.

If I did not matter, then it would be an okay choice, as nothing mattered, may
be the book would be amusing to some, no harm done. If I am NASA agent, I am
still alien technology, and there could be other alien spies, who are giving
this very information that I am collecting to aliens.

There is one major flaw with this choice: now the aliens will know we are onto
them, it removes the element of surprise. I am going to reason that drawback of
this plan is small compared to gaurnteed advantage it has.

Lets consider an anology: if your enemy country has nuclear weapons, and you do
not know if your country has nuclear weapons, and you come across nuclear
weapons, you have two choices: publicly give your country nuclear weapon, or not
give your country the nuclear weapon. What would you chose if you were not sure
your country has nuclear weapon? In the case you country did not have weapon and
you chose to refrain from giving nuclear weapon, you have guaranteed a defeat of
your country. If you gave your country a nuclear weapon, and you remove the
element of surprise, you reduce the chance of winning very slightly.

I think it should be clear that advantage (going from defeat position to equal
position) is far supreior to disadvantage (losing one element of surprise).

If there was a way to privately communicate my knowledge to lets say NASA, I
would have loved to, but we are under the assumption that the alien technology
has complete access to what is going on in my head.

One remaining flaw with my plan: what if I was the only alien spy? In the
analogy that would be then equivalent to me giving the nuclear weapon to both
sides. Since I do not know which side I am, if I do not write the book, the
weapon I got is definetly going to at least one side, and the only way I
guarantee Earth get it is to give it to both. I think its a better choice than
not giving to any (which may lead to weapon going to only aliens). If NASA knows
better, they can take appropriate action and eliminate me before I publish the
book or protect the book any other way. I am not the only one fighting. And I
can sleep with peace.

PS: This was just a thought experiment, please don't come to kill me.

