---
layout: post
title: "Life Advice To Young: 1. Communicate Properly"
url: /communicate-properly/
section: hinduism
---
{% include JB/setup %}

One of the first things you must learn is proper English. Actually what you
should learn is proper language, any language is fine, but most likely you are
going to be using English. If you know Hindi, learn proper Hindi too. If you
write in Hindi, try to use correct Hindi. Its okay if type in Roman, but the
Hindi itself must be correct.

As a young individual you probably take pride on how fast you can type using all
that dis s so kool, the SMS lingo. Lose it. User proper English. Which means
first letter of sentence is capitalised. There is \*EXACTLY ONE\* space after a
comma or a full-stop and ZERO before them. And all the sentences are full. There
is proper tense. The spellings are correct. Read [Elements of
Style](http://www.crockford.com/wrrrld/style.html), and follow it.

Never be seen using that kind of crap. You can switch to that if you are talking
to some person who uses that, may be to show understanding etc, but do not start
with it. Start with proper English. Then move to smalls, just drop
capitalisation (for beginning of sentences, not for proper nouns). And finally
move to SMS lingo. But never lead in this downward progression. Be quick to
upgrade your language as soon as the other person does, or if you think others
may be reading it, for example if you are tweeting or commenting on Facebook
etc. Reserve SMS lingo only to one to one conversation with someone who is an
idiot. Be very careful, if two are using SMS lingo, the assumption the world
makes is either one or both of them are idiots. If you entirely lose SMS lingo,
you are better off. You are smarter and better than others. If you come across
with dirty dress you do not roll in dirt to match them.

And do not leave people to guess what you meant. If you ever are found saying
“Oh that is what I meant”, slap yourself. Err on the side of repeating yourself.
Err on the side of over explaining. If there is even remotely possible that your
sentence has two meanings, assume that nobody will get the meaning you intended
and will pick the meaning you did not. Do not complain about this. Fix your
sentences so there is no ambiguity. Avoid pronouns, in favour of nouns. Do not
use indirections, be as direct as possible. Repeat the whole thing. Do not have
meaning spread over multiple sentences if possible.

Your written words are your appearance in a lot of cases. You take shower
everyday before you leave. Your brush your teeth every day. You wear clean
cloth. You cut your hair from time to time. You like it or not, this matters.
This shows that you have ability to follow rules. It shows that you get it. This
is not important. You do not judge the book by the cover. What matters is what
you provide as a value. But assuming that is the only thing that matters. Or
assuming that people will be able to just look at your inner values and will
completely ignore your outward appearance, is a naive assumption. That kind of
assumption shows that you do not get it. You do not understand how the world is.
If you have not understood this simple thing about the world, its hard to
imagine you would have understood more refined things you think you should be
valued for. World is a harsh and unfair place. It has plenty of obstructions in
your way. People will push you down. Least you can do is do not shoot yourself
in your foot. These are simple things that give you an edge over others. Take
them. When some firm is hiring you, they are looking for someone who will give
them and edge over others. Be an asset not a liability. Signal this in every
fashion you can. And be one. Being and appearing are two things, those who get
it, understand this. Be that.

Answer all questions. If you are asked three questions, answer all three
questions. In order. Do not make someone repeat the questions. If someone asks
you same question twice, be very sure that you had intended to refuse to answer
the question. If you carry on in your thought, focusing only on what you have to
say, you are showing ignorance. You are showing in ability to structure things.
Go topic to topic. Let it conclude, then move on to others. Or be smart about
remembering what all topics are going on. People need to know that you get it.
People need to know that they do not need to repeat the same thing before you
understand it. I will repeat the same thing till you get it, but the moment I
have repeated (after being clear the first time), I assume I am talking to an
idiot. I will get my job done by repeating it as many times as the idiot gets
it, but I am not going to be thinking about the idiot when I need some job done
next time. I will prefer a non idiot. A person who when asked 20 questions,
leave alone 3, will answer all 20 questions. In order. With no ambiguity. If
someone asks "What subjects have you taken? When is the exam? What are life
plans?", may be consider adding a word to make it obvious which answer is to
which question, eg "subjects: math+bio, exam on 24th apr and plans ==
engineering i guess", avoid the temptation to say "math+bio, 24th apr,
engineering", which is still clear, but many unclear answers are possible, which
you can justify. Do not justify. Make sure that you do not have to give
excuses/justifications afterwards.

Get an acknowledgement and give acknowledgements. It is very easy to live in
your own head. When you are talking to someone, communicating with someone, you
are a better communicator if you can imagine what is going on in the other
persons head. Be not concerned with if what you say accurately represents what
is in your head. Be concerned with if what you say is what is needed to be said
so that what was intended to does go into the head of other person. If someone
says "lets meet on friday for dinner at 8”, avoid the temptation to say “sure”.
If this reply comes directly after the question, may be a “sure” or “ok” is
enough, but prefer saying, “sure, we will meet on friday at 8 for dinner, I will
see you at your office”. Do not be lazy and try to avoid typing. Explicit is
better than implicit. If there is a gap in communication, both parties suffer,
and assume other party is idiot, and any gap is only your fault. Do not leave
any possibility of a gap.

Don't use hard words. When you use a word, be very sure that 1. you are using it
correctly, and 2. the person you are talking to understands the word, the
correct usage of the word and agrees that your usage was justified. In Enlish,
and for that matter in any language, for every words there is a connotation and
a denotation. Denotation is mostly the "dictionary meaning" of the word.
Connotation is more of "what people use it for" kind of meaning of the word. Use
a word only if you understand both. Different audiance may have different
connotation. Be aware of that when using a hard word. Do not insist on
dictionary meaning to be the one you meant. The audiance will take into
consideration their positive and negative bias of the word as per their
connotations as the meaning of the word you used. With time you will have
finess, you will get things. Go slow. All the best authors and speakers used
simple words. Hard words is for prissys. You are not that. You are cool. You get
it. Your focus in communication, not sounding smart. What you say has to be
smart, not how you say it. Trying to sound smart is the simplest indication that
you have nothing smart to say.
