---
layout: post
title: "I Am A Contrarian, You Should Be Too"
section: hinduism
---
{% include JB/setup %}

This is one of the things about me, no matter where you come from, what
your beliefs and thought process is, if you talk to me I will spend
maximum amount of my thinking power to find a way to contradict you,
find a position which is opposite from yours.

First of all, I know no two people think exactly alike, so trying to
find exactly where you and I disagree is the fastest way of know till
where we agree. And the moment I find a topic on which you and me
disagree on, is the moment we can have interesting discussion, as  what
is the point of just saying things both of as believe in. Would you like
a conversation where we discuss how earth is round and sun rises in
east? Its just a wastage of time.

The second reason I go for a contrarian opinion is to test things out.
So lets say if world believes gay marriage is okay, I can say it is
okay, but then it would lead to no new knowledge for me (actually for
both of us), so I will say I am against it, so I can give proper justice
to the opposing point of view from what I may believe in.  I will try my
best to construct the strongest arguments in favor of things I do not
believe in, and I will try it out with the next unsuspecting/unfortunate
person who happens to fall into my trap :-p

This way I know if any of those arguments have any merit, and since I
kind of give an impression that I actually belive in that opinion, as
most people can not conceive of a person arguing in favor of something
they do believe in, some people get baffled with me.

There is a no greater danger to truth than a concensus among many about
a half truth. I consider only one religious obligation: the quest for
truth. So I will give full thought to any random thought that comes my
way, do my best to find if it has any value, and only when it can not be
defended at all will I reject it. This also forces me to think a lot,
and think fast, and therefore think clearly, so its win win for me.

I will never succumb (or at least I try not to) to popular culture of
rejecting ideas one does not like, as more important than our likes is
our duty to correctness.

If you believe in something it is your responsibility to argue against
it. Like it is the responsibility of a doctor to find every way you can
fall sick. Like it is the responsibility of a lawyer to find every way
you can lose in court. Like it is the responsibility of a security
professional to find every way a criminal may defeat the security of the
system.

And what is more fun than trying to argue in favor of some absurdity in
most serious fashion to an unsuspecting person? [May be I am going to be
fooling you in all future discussions, or may be I am fooling you right
now, how will you ever know?]

Don't call me a troll. Do what I do. Enrich your thought process. By
momentarily conceeding the opposite, you do not become less, you become
more. There is no shame in [changing your
mind](/2012/10/how-to-be-righter-than-others/).


